# TextNet #

CS224W Final Project
Kiko Ilagan, Anoop Manjunath, Vikram Pattabi

### What is this repository for? ###

This repo contains all of the code used as part of our CS224W project
Unsupervised Document Clustering by Authorial Style through Network-Based
Semantic and Syntactic Features

# Data
Folder containing the text data used to generate our style/text graphs. 
We used two datasets over the course of this analysis - a dataset of
presidential speeches (Brown D.W., 2016) and a dataset
of politically charged sentences (IBC) (Sim et al., 2013). To save space,
in this repository we keep only the presidential speeches.

# Graph Generation
Contains several different algorithms for generating graphs from
text. Each graph generator builds off the GraphGenerator superclass
which provides functionality for text parsing and tokenizing. Graph
generation algorithms include text bag, which connects words based
on the similarity of thier word vectory, text window, which connects
words on the basis of their closeness within sentences, text pos which
connects words according to their part of speech, and text chain which
connects sentences together in chains. 

# Results
Tables containing results of running our analysis algorithms on the graphs
generated by the graph generations algorithms for each dataset

# Jupyter notebooks
We provide three jupyter notebooks, Politicial Sentences.ipynb,
Presidents.ipynb, and Speech Representation.ipynb. The first provides
code to analyze the IBC dataset. Presidents.ipynb provides an implementation
to perform simple analysis on the presdiential speeches dataset. Speech 
Representations.ipynb allows for visualizations of the graph generated by
each algorithm for a particular speech. The first two notebooks also have code
for generating and visualizing tSNE embeddings of the style vectors for each graphs

# analyze.py
Provides functionality for the key analysis function - gen_style_vec. This function
given a graph outputs a style vector representation of the graph. The modular code
allows us to consider style graphs that consider node2vec run on a graph metanode, 
the word vectors of the most central nodes, as well as graph statistics such as
average degree and clustering coefficient. 

The file further provides functionality to perform K means clustering and evaluate
clustering performance on the style vectors generated

# ibc_analysis.py
Performs large scale analysis of graph and style vector generator performance on the
ibc dataset

# presidential_analysis.py
Performs large scale analysis of graph and style vector generator performance on the
speeches with less than 400 unique tokens in the presidential speeches dataset

# presidential_analysis_full.py
Performs large scale analysis of graph and style vector generator performance on all
speeches in the presidential speeches dataset

# References
Brown, D. W. (2016) Corpus of Presidential Speeches. Retrieved from http://www.thegrammarlab.com

Yanchuan Sim, Brice Acree, Justin Gross, and Noah Smith. Measuring Ideological Proportions in Political Speeches.Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2013.

